without a doubt Tik Tok is one of the
easiest platforms to grow your following
but with so many experts out there how
do you know what works in
2024 hey my name is shelen Johnson
thanks so much for joining me here today
on build your tribe I'm the co-host of
build your tribe with my son Brock and
today we are talking all about Tik Tok
now I myself have almost 800,000
followers on Tik Tok and I think
sometimes when somebody was an early
settler like myself and I had quite a
few early videos go viral I think
sometimes you lose that credibility with
someone who's trying to grow today in
2023 2024 from zero because times have
changed and so have techniques and you
know what you're right the things that I
do to continually grow my following is
different from what you need to do if
you don't yet have 10,000 followers so
what I've done for you today is curated
the best tips proven techniques to help
you grow on Tik Tok from Top Tik Tok
experts and first up is valuable content
bottom line you need to create content
that's so valuable people say to
themselves I need to see this person's
content again now funny content is
possibly going to get you to go viral
entertaining content will likely help
your videos go viral but you want
followers and followers you know this to
be true we're stingy with our followers
today right like we're like I already
follow too many people I might like the
video I might send it to a friend but
I'm not going to follow you unless I
want to see more of the exact same kind
of content and typically that happens
only if number one the videos like from
someone who you can tell they've done
like a skit comedy like they have a very
funny delivery so funny videos will work
in that regard but like if you can just
tell you've caught a funny moment with
your kid people are not likely going to
follow your account because they know it
was kind of a coincidence if however
you're really funny and you're you've
got this specific style and people go
and look at your page and they see that
there's more content like that well then
that would categorize your content as
valuable if you're creating content that
people are like I'm looking for someone
who's producing content that shows me
how to grow on Instagram and they go and
look at your Tik Tok page and there's
more of that content well then you're
going to get a follow so you want to
create content that's valuable for a
specific Niche either a niche topic or a
niche audience what types of videos
generate followers valuable content it's
really simple actually think about what
makes you follow somebody else fit
girlies body inspo and most time workout
fashion girlies fashion inspo new stores
that you might not know about makeup and
Beauty might show you new techniques
review new product even the dance
girlies are providing value it's really
entertaining to watch I'm not saying you
need to Niche down I'm saying when you
post ask yourself is this going to
provide value to a stranger so here's
what I did wrong for 10 months and what
I see a lot of other people doing wrong
only posting Trends even if it goes
viral because it's relatable that viral
video is not going to convert a
following take it from me only posting
super personal information about you or
your lifestyle and you don't really have
a community yet this was me I was she I
had 100 followers and I thought everyone
cared about my every move but really I
was just wasting my time and frustrating
myself with content that nobody was
going to watch trying to be perfect and
trying to be aesthetic now aesthetic
girlies that's a skill and they do it
well but if that's not you Don't Force
It Be Yourself show your personality
share what's in your head what you've
experienced in your life what could help
other people this is not Instagram you
don't have to be aesthetic and things
don't have to be perfect to do well here
they just have to be valuable so instead
of wasting all of your time and effort
trying to put together that really
aesthetic video or Vlog that quite
frankly cannot compete with the
aesthetic girlies and it's going to flop
think of something that you know or you
do that might help someone else there
are different types of value that you
can offer in your Tik Tok videos not
just like talking and giving information
but understand ask yourself is this
video valuable to somebody who is going
to watch it value could be entertainment
value could be howto value could be
educational but overall does this video
give someone value in their life yes or
no next is SEO search engine
optimization but it's quite different on
Tik Tok than it is on any other platform
let's start by talking about the search
bar here's how to get more views on your
content by using the Tik Tok search bar
feature you do not want to miss learning
how to rank in Tik Tok search because
Tik Tok is becoming an evergreen
platform learning how to rank your
videos is going to allow you to get
traffic passively to your business the
first thing that you need to know is
that you cannot control what Tik Tock
puts in the search bar of your video
that is completely up to Tik tok's
algorithm so listen carefully the single
most important thing you can do is to
identify what search term you want to
rank for before you make your video
because this will ensure that your video
is highly relevant to your search term
and this is what actually gives you the
highest chance of securing the ranking
that you want the second thing you need
to do is optimize your video for SEO
make sure your search term is in your
text in your video make sure you say
your search term at least once
preferably at the start of your video
use your search search term as a sticker
hashtag use your exact search term in
your caption use your search term as a
hashtag all one word use your search
term in your thumbnail and rename your
original sounds doing these steps will
give you the highest chance of getting a
Tik Tock search bar ranking next the
content that works on Instagram and even
for YouTube shorts is not what's going
to work on Tik Tok and I think this
should be really good news for those of
you who are like I don't have an editor
I don't have any fancy way to cut things
up what's working right now on Tik Tok
is longer videos that look much more
organic they're not chopped up they're
not they don't have the crazy captions
and emojis they just feel much more real
much more natural so let me show you a
couple of examples of what is a a bad
example or something that would work on
Instagram but wouldn't work
on here's an example of the type of
content that's going to perform much
better on Tik Tok my friend Drew this
chicken with four legs and it's kind of
like a running joke cuz chickens on her
four legs so we she puts it on like
everything and today I asked chat GPT
what would be a good brand name for this
company that already has a logo but
doesn't have a brand name are you ready
these are really clever I haven't even
hit regenerate yet but let's just see
what it comes up with for second
set it's just so creative let me explain
to you no don't bring your Instagram
reals over here and repost to miss Tik
toks and expect it to go viral it's not
going to work also stop putting
important in the caption don't
nobody read the caption on Tik Tok you
got something important to say put it on
the screen and I don't want to talk y'
ear off so now you're seeing this trend
with a little microphone or some kind of
a microphone in general a lot of Tik Tok
creators are using this microphone I
want to caution you anytime you see like
a lot of people doing the same thing it
means it's almost played out can you
jump on this bandwagon right now and
probably get
some play from it absolutely but just
know it it's kind of a gimmicky thing
and things change
quickly starting off with influencer
number one they had about 550,000
followers and for one Tik Tok video they
quoted me $5,000 Okay the reason why
this works is because you need to
position your entire LinkedIn to look
more like a thought leader and an expert
and not just an employee problematic
care cheat codes part 13 I just know
number four is going to make people mad
so please don't fight me please one of
our outfits costs over £2,500 the other
is under £300 and we're asking people
who they think is more expensive another
thing that's working really well on Tik
Tok is longer form videos so videos that
are over 3 minutes this is fun this
should be exciting but it all starts
with a powerful hook check this out I
gained over 10,000 followers on this
account overnight and here's how you can
too I included four words follow for
more because I included that call to
action I gained the following that I did
if I forgot to mention those four words
in that one video that blew up for me
last night I probably would have only
gained a quarter of that following
reminding your followers in every single
video to like comment and follow can
make the world of a difference next is
hashtags you overwhelm the algorithm by
using too many hashtags by every single
video that you're posting throwing darts
at the wall trying to come up with like
all these different ways to for people
to find you pick a small group of
anywhere from 5 to 10 hashtags maximum
ideally five that are more specific to
your Niche which also kind of forces you
to create videos that fall within those
buckets that niche those 5 to 10
hashtags make it so much easier for the
algorithm to know this is the type of
content you can expect from this account
it tells Tik Tok who to put your videos
in front of create a set of hashtags
between five and seven and only use
those hashtags moving forward if you're
using a million different hashtags you
are confusing the out of Tik Tok and
it's quite annoying to be honest just
focus on finding the five to seven and
use those only now if you're struggling
to figure out which hashtags are
trending which ones there's a real
opportunity for you or even which styles
of music which audios are trending Tik
Tok has an incredible Center and I'm
going to link to it here you're going to
go to Tik Tock creative Center this is a
a free website created by Tik Tok where
basically it's giving you all the
information the details you need to know
what's working giving you creative ideas
trending audios hashtags news about Tik
Tok and so much more check it out you're
going to go to the trends Tab and then
you're going to scroll down down and
view hashtags that are trending within
the United States they literally provide
you with so many hashtags and find the
ones that apply to your Niche if you
don't want to scroll through the whole
thing search up whatever your Niche is
and then go through all the hashtags and
then make a list on Google Docs after
you have your hashtags listed now you're
going to pick five songs to make five
separate videos before you even leave
your bed make sure when you're picking
songs they have the Green Arrow going up
and not the red arrow going down the
green arrow means it's trending and it's
about to blow up now you have your
hashtag list and your trending songs
great but you're still in bed how are
you going to make the content um you're
not you're going to go into your camera
roll and use videos that you already
have and put text over them now I know
this is a Tik Tok growth strategy for
lazy people but just because you slap
some text over a video that's already in
your camera roll and pair it with a
trending audio doesn't mean that you're
going to go viral however if you're able
to put together and post five pieces of
cont content before you even get out of
bed maybe doing 30 minutes of research
and work this is going to help you be
consistent and consistency is key now
lastly I want to say about growth on Tik
Tok universally every single marketer
every anyone who I know who has an
online business has confirmed that sales
are still happening on Instagram so you
are making a cardinal sin if you don't
link to your Instagram on your Tik Tok
yes you may grow in 10,000 followers in
a very quick amount of time on Tik Tok
but that doesn't necessarily mean those
followers are going to buy from you on
Tik Tok it has been my experience even
though I have almost as many followers
on Tik Tok as I have on Instagram the
amount of sales I have on Instagram is
100x what I've earned on Tik Tok however
I can't tell you how many people say I
followed you on Tik Tok or I found you
on Tik Tok and then I came over here on
Instagram and and I now I watch your
stories and I buy from you and your
stories the fact of the matter is is
today currently as we're entering 2024
people are still more comfortable buying
on Instagram so don't miss the
opportunity by forgetting to link to
your Instagram on your Tik Tok profile
hey my goal is to be brief to be bright
to make it fun and then be done ladies
and gentlemen we are done oh no we're
not no we're not because I almost forgot
to ask you to double check and make sure
that you are subscribed to build your
tribe and if you're watching here on
YouTube please double check and make
sure you've turned on the little
notification Bell because that's how
you'll know that you're getting new
content here from us on build your tribe
hey I really do appreciate you thanks
for tuning in and we'll see you
[Music]
soon